Going to have a look now at the differences between
Synchronous and Asynchronous Data Production.
So we're going to return to the workspace,
and we're going to take a look at the sample three.
The first thing we're going to do is take a look at our produce function.
We've seen this function before.
There are a few modifications here.
First we instantiate our producer with bootstrap servers,
and then we're going to go ahead and call
produce with this new purchase object serialized.
So let's take a look at that real quick.
The very bottom here we have a data class.
This purchase type has username, currency, and amount.
We're just generating some fake random data in here just for illustration purposes.
We also have a serialized function which will take
a purchase object and dump it out as a JSON string.
So returning to our produce function,
when we call produce on the producer,
we're going to create a purchase object with
some random data because this is just a demonstration,
and we're going to serialize it out to a JSON string.
Then we're going to measure every thousandth iteration,
how much time has elapsed.
For going to first run our producer asynchronously so we can see how fast it runs.
Let's go ahead and give this a shot.
So again, this producer is already set up asynchronously which is the default.
All right. So we can see we'll get to 10,000 messages and then we'll stop.
Okay. So it took five seconds to get to 10,000 messages using asynchronous production.
Now, if we want to make this synchronous,
we can use the producer flush function.
The flush function tells the underlying Kafka client to stop and send messages to Kafka.
So this essentially, makes our producer asynchronous producer.
So by adding this function,
we're going to be stopping every single time
we produce a message and sending that message to Kafka.
Now, let's see how long it takes us to get 10,000 messages.
Okay. So it added about two seconds of execution time.
This is our asynchronous,
took five seconds to get 10,000 messages,
and for a synchronous,
it took seven seconds to get to 10,000 messages.
Now, I want to emphasize this is not
the most scientific benchmark that has ever
been run on synchronous versus asynchronous production,
and it's not necessarily meant to be.
I just wanted to illustrate the fact that when you use a synchronous producer,
you are going to slow down your production to Kafka.
So carefully consider whether or not it's worth it in your specific situation.